Let's talk about some of the principles,
so what does product design encapsulate?
And there are gonna be a lot
of things on this list that
you're gonna go, well,
that's not design, right?
But it is, a lot of the things
that you need to be aware of and
you need to understand and
are core principles of product design,
are not things that you would
maybe associate with design, but
are incredibly valuable to learn.
And I'll just go off in a minor
rant before I get into this list.
One of the big problems that I have
with people today who work in design,
is they spend so
much time learning about design.
[LAUGH] I know that sounds ridiculous.
They spend so much time learning
about the latest technique or
the latest plugin, or the latest bit
of software, or whether this year,
it's skeuomorphic or new skeuomorphic,
or not skeuomorphic, or
whether all of these trends and
stuff but trends come and go.
What you really need if you wanna
become an amazing product designer,
you need to look at psychology,
marketing, business,
these kinds of areas are just
as important to be aware of.
And so as we go through these list of
principles, you'll see that come out,
that these are the kinds of things you
need to be paying attention to if you want
to get good at product design.
And the first is market awareness, right?
Knowing what's going on in
the market that you're working
within is incredibly important, so
who are your competitors, right?
Who else is operating in the marketplace?
What did they do well?
What do they do poorly?
How do they price?
All of these things are worth
understanding as a product designer,
right?
If they're doing something well,
copy it, [LAUGH] right?
If they're doing something badly,
improve upon it.
But also, if you wanna get people to
migrate from your competitors to you,
then it's worth having similarities
in the way that it works.
So to reduce the amount of
procedural knowledge or
increase the amount of procedural
knowledge, they can transfer across.
So being aware of the competition
is really important, but
then also you wanna be aware of the market
trends, what's happening in the market?
How are users expectations
changing is a big one.
And you see this is how people disrupt
a market, right, and come into an area.
Banking is a huge one.
I don't whether it is over here,
but certainly, in the UK,
all of the major high street banks have
been majorly replaced by new up and
coming banks who went, well, everybody
just wants to bank on their phone.
So they created a mobile-first
user experience,
product design-orientated
approach to banking, and
they've swept and
dominated the market, right?
So knowing how users' expectations
are changing, what dynamics are going
in the market, helps you to understand
your role as a product designer and
where you need to place the emphasis
in the work that you're doing.
And then there's positioning, right,
what differentiates your
product from your competitors?
How clear is that difference to people?
And when you get into the app,
are they instantly gonna go, well,
this is just better?
Are they gonna see those killer apps,
those killer features up front?
So being aware of that market is
a hugely important aspect or marketing.
That's a dirty thing that marketers do,
right?
But you can't have that attitude if you
wanna be working in product design,
you've obviously gotta be user centric,
right?
That almost needs to go without saying,
but
I've included it anyway because it
would be really bad not to say it.
So in particular, we need to be hyper
aware of what users' goals are.
What does our web app allow people to do?
What does it allow them to achieve?
Not what functionality has it got, but
how does it help in their lives, right?
So for example, a banking app, yeah,
it lets you check your balances and
it lets you, no, no,
those are features, right?
That's your deposit checks,
now that's a feature.
How does it help?
It helps people be in
control of their money.
Having a kinda picture of that overall
goal of what people are wanting from your
app, how it's gonna make their
lives better is so essential, and
keeping that in your mind the whole time.
I mean, to be honest,
that's kinda helpful in any UX design,
but it's particularly prominent
when you're talking about products.
Pain points as well.
What problem or pain point is
your app helping you to solve?
And then finally, needs.
This is a big question.
Is there a legitimate need for
the product that you're working on and
the functionality you're creating?
The number of features that I've
seen created just because, well,
the competition have them, right?
That is such a terrible reason to
create a new piece of functionality,
cuz it makes the assumption that they know
what they're doing over there which they
probably don't.
Or where, yeah, I had this great idea,
that's the other one
that I absolutely love.
Yeah, some senior manager comes along and
says, I've had this great idea, but
that's not a reason to implement it just
because you think it's a great idea.
So being aware of real users
needs is obviously crucial.
So it's about being user-centric as well,
but it's also about having
an awareness of your different
user groups and their role, right?
Cuz different groups will
have different objectives.
So take something like task app, right?
A task app can be a used by
a huge number of different people
in all kinds of different ways, right?
As a business executive,
I might use a task app to
organize my tasks and
my overview of what's going on.
If I'm a project manager, I might have
hundreds of tasks organized into complex
projects and that kinda stuff.
If I'm a stay-at-home mum,
I might use my task list for
groceries and things like that.
It's a huge range of different groups that
could be using an individual product.
And so understanding those groups and
what they're trying to achieve and
where they're going, and
to some degree, focusing on one
group over another is fundamental
to the success of a product.
And then there's the fact we need to be
a kinda almost coming out of that comes
the fact that we need to be task
orientated, having a clear picture and
understanding of what tasks
the user needs to complete.
And that will vary quite massively
depending on the user group, right?
So as a project manager,
I'm gonna want nested projects,
I'm gonna want reoccurring tasks,
I'm gonna want all kinds of functionality
that the stay at home mom
probably doesn't want.
But on the other hand, she would love
it if her task list of groceries
was automatically organized via
aisle in the supermarket, which now,
actually, Apple does in their
reminder list apparently.
I've never tried it cuz obviously, I'm not
that organized in my grocery shopping.
But understanding the needs there, and
how the tasks will help them complete
that need is really important,
and what tasks are more crucial
to success than others?
Not all tasks are equal, right?
Figma, I'm using auto layout and
create auto layout,
hundreds of times a day, but
something like outline text,
can't say I use that that much, right?
So not everything is equal and
understanding that hierarchy of what's
important to users and
what's not is crucial to success.
And it's not which ones are most crucial,
it's also which ones you use the most.
There's a subtle difference there,
isn't there?
So for example, actually, that one
that I just gave, you could argue,
no, auto layout is more important than
outline text, I'm sticking to that, right?
But it might be that there is
a thing that I use all the time
within an application that although
use all the time, it wouldn't
be the end of the world wouldn't stop me
completing my task if it wasn't there.
So there's lots of nuances here that
you need to kinda juggle in your head.
And then of course, there's functionality,
you need to think about functionality.
What functionality will be required in
order to allow users to achieve their
goals and to address their pain points?
So you've got goals and pain points, and
then tasks that they wanna do to
help them achieve their goal, and
then we need functionality that
enables them to act on those tasks,
so it's like a hierarchy.